Code Quality and Toolchain Documentation (#24)
icssc/docs: content/docs/contributor/common/code-quality/index.mdx

---
title: Code Quality
description: Working toward consistently high code quality and its unique importance within ICSSC.
---

> Good code quality and practices are generally regarded as important for most projects. However, do the nature of our organization, it is especailly critical.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Good code quality and practices are generally regarded as important for most projects. However, due to the nature of our organization, it is especially critical.
```

## Importance

### 1. Growing / Changing Team

> As a student organization, our team is constantly changing. Realistically, most members are only at UCI for 4 years and may only be in ICSSC for 2 or 3. With this in mind, it's important that knowledge is able to efficiently transfer between leaving and joining members. To facilitate effective knowledge transfer, we need clean, self-documenting code (explaining implementation), and well-written documentation (explaining processes and decisions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a student organization, our team is constantly changing. Realistically, most members are only at UCI for 4 years, and may only be in ICSSC for 2 or 3. With this in mind, it's important that knowledge can be transferred efficiently between new and outgoing members. To facilitate effective knowledge transfer, we need clean, self-documenting code (explaining implementation), and well-written documentation (explaining processes and decisions).
```

### 2. Long Term Project

> Most, if not all, of the projects we work on are long-term. This necessitates the ability to effectively fix bugs, add features, and perform migrations for many years. Well-crafted code, with good separation of concerns and reusability, ensures we can accomplish this efficiently with the limited time we have to dedicate to a student org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We intend to maintain all of our primary projects long into the future. This necessitates the ability to effectively fix bugs, add features, and perform migrations for many years. Well-crafted code, with good separation of concerns and reusability, ensures we can accomplish this efficiently with the limited time we have to dedicate to a student org.
```

### 3. Open Source

One of the core pillars of Projects is open source. Our projects are almost all released under [OSI approved licenses](https://opensource.org/licenses), and we regularly accept members via contributions (outside of normal recruitment). This means our code also has to be generally understandable for those without direct access to the author.

### 4. Good Practice

Projects is also a community to grow in and an incubator for talent. Many of our members join to learn and grow, while having the opportunity to give back to our community. We want to ensure that we honor this by following good practices, and cultivating important skills.

## Implementation

With this being said, we employ a three prong approach to facilitate good code quality.

> ### 1. Path Of Least Resistance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Path of Least Resistance
```
